#### General Thoughts

If Plato's Symposium sought to answer the question, what is love, if Plato's Republic sought to answer the question, what is justice, Aristotle's Nichomachean ethics seeks to answer, how do you live a good life. That is something I noticed about differences in subject manner between Plato and Aristotle, Plato seeks to ask what is X, Aristotle seeks to ask how to do X. The ideological differnces between the two have been endlessly picked out, often by Aristotle himself, but by the end of the text, I didn't feel like I had to disagree with Plato to agree with Aristotle, or vice versa. Plato argues that what the most important thing in life is to engage in philosophy, the art of contemplating right and wrong. Aristotle says yes, but in addition to knowing what's right, it is important to DO right. This is my way of harmonizing these two philosophical juggernauts.

#### Thoughts on Plato vs Aristotle

The ideological differences between Plato and Aristotle have been stated and restated endless times for the last 2500 years, by philosophers far smarter than I. I will not waste time to restate these, but to just point out the difference in their respective formats. Plato writes as a dialogue, the famous Socratic dialectic, where multiple characters debate over a topic. This invites the reader to engage with the topic themselves, immersing the reader into the conversation, prompting them to think like philosophers as well. Aristotle’s works, on the other hand, are formatted as lecture notes, far less engaging. The result is that reading Plato prompts you to think, disagree, and struggle with the text at hand, as if you were another participant in the conversation, whereas reading Aristotle feels like listening to a lecture, where you can’t really engage, but just have to accept what he’s teaching is true. Plato makes you think, Aristotle tells you what to think.

#### Thoughts on the value of moderation:

Unlike a lot of philosophers before and after him, who preach that pleasure is at worst evil and at best useless, Aristotle strongly advocates for pleasure. They key for Aristotle, in all things, is moderation. He asserts that all virtues are just a moderation between two undesirable states. For example, bravery is between cowardice and recklessness. Although I disagree in some instances (how can one be too wise, or too healthy), I think this concept of moderation applies to most aspects of life. I think too often in today's world do we strive to either side of an extreme, in order to maximize, forgetting Aristotle's wisdom.

#### Thoughts on friendship:

Aristotle believes there to be three different kinds of friendship, each corresponding to what we exchange in the friendship. The first type is friendships based on utility, the second is friendships based on pleasure, and the final one being friendships based on truly liking someone's character. Aristotle believes the first two to be somewhat imposters of the final one, since they can be fickle, as one's utlity and pleasure tend to be. The true friendship is one in which both parties are good, and thus appreciate the good in each other, not desiring anything from each other, but genuinely wanting what's best for each other. This has made me reflect deeply on the friendships in my life, the ones that have been lost, and the ones I hope do not become lost to me. It has also made me notice an insecurity in myself. Whenever I do like someone and want to establish a friendship, I try to make myself useful. I think this shows that I do not have faith in myself as a good and attractive person, such that people would like me for the third category.

#### Thoughts on the purpose of government:

Aristotle believes that people should first and foremost be good for the sake of goodness. But that can only be expected of good people. So a government must exist to enforce laws of goodness so that the bad people may be punished if they do not choose good. Theoretically, a good person would feel no friction whatsoever in a good government. This is an interesting perspective in the debate between Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, and Jean Jacques-Rousseau as to whether man is inherently good, bad, or a blank slate. Aristotle essentially argues that man can be either good or bad, but can be shaped and molded by society as well.
