### Summary

Herodotus writes in his Histories the story of the hubris of the Persian Empire. It begins with the story of King Croesus of Lydia, who invites the Athenian sage, Solon, to his palace. He shows Solon his vast wealth and numerous healthy children, and asks Solon who the happiest man he’s ever met is. Croesus means for Solon to glorify him, yet Solon refuses to name him first, second, or third place with respect to happiness. In fact, all of Solon’s candidates are notably dead, because Solon’s point is that men cannot be called happy while they live, only lucky, because tomorrow is never guaranteed. Croesus proceeds to lose his firstborn son in a hunting accident, and then his entire kingdom to Cyrus the Great of Persia, which is our first introduction to the main character of this story, the Persian Empire. The story of Croesus and Solon is notably false, due to the impossibility of their meeting, but its themes serve as the backdrop to Herodotus’ historical analysis of the character and the kings of the Persian Empire. Herodotus begins with Cyrus, the founder and greatest Persian king. He notes his many glorious conquests, including Babylon and the Median Empire, until his untimely demise, when his arrogance lead him to challenge the queen of the Massagetae, Tomyris, who defeats and slays him in battle. Herodotus continues on to Cyrus’ son, Cambyses, and his conquest of Egypt, before his expedition to Ethiopia ended in catastrophe, and the temporary coup of the Persian Empire by two Median magi. A man named Darius eventually overthrew the magi, ascended to king of all Persia, and conquered much of India, yet he too fell to his arrogance after his failures to invade both Scythia and Greece. Darius’ son, Xerxes, perhaps the most arrogant of all the kings so far, attempted a full-scale invasion of Greece, which lead to nearly the loss of his entire army, and essentially ended Persian hegemony. Through the story of all of these kings, we see the common pattern that the hubris of kings give them an illusion of invincibility, which eventually leads to their ultimate downfall. Alongside this main narrative there is a secondary plot, one of the beginnings of the formation of a common Greek identity. Before the Persian invasion, the Greeks oftened squabbled amongst themselves, but in the face of such an overbearing threat, they were forced to band together and find common ground.

#### General thoughts

Although Herodotus claims to be mostly factual to the best of his ability, there is one conversation in this work that is competely fictional, the conversation between Solon the Athenian and Croesus of Lydia. Solon died before Croesus was born, and this was common knowledge to Herodotus' audience. Thus, there must be a reason why Herodotus included this dialogue. The dialogue essentially boils down to Solon criticizing Croesus for his hubris, explaining that one can only truly be happy when they are dead. Right after this conversation, Croesus loses his son and his entire kingdom to Cyrus of Persia. Each Persian king we follow falls victim to this hubris, Cyrus when he invades the Massagetae, Cambyses when he invades Ethiopia, Darius when he invades Scythia, and finally Xerxes when he invades Greece. This can also be viewed as a general metaphor for the Persian Empire as a whole.

#### Thoughts on the development of the concept of nations

It is shown repeatedly in this work that there is immense discord amongst the various Greek cities, and many pieces of evidence that they do not see each other as one people. In fact, many Greeks sided with the Persians. But through the tone of Herodotus himself, we feel the beginnings of pan-Hellenic identity, which then the conclusion can be reasonably drawn that pan-Hellenic identity began with the Persian invasion.

#### Thoughts on the preference for death over life

Herodotus expresses several times in his work a preference for death over life. The conversation between Solon and Croesus being the chief example. Croesus asks Solon who he thinks is the happiest man he has met. Solon responds with some dead guy, and repeats this for the second and third happiest as well. The point is that life is not over until it is over, and thus happiness is only a fleeting feeling. This can be seen in the eventual collapse of each king of Persia, as well as their ultimate defeat at the hands of the Greeks.
