### General Thoughts

The Iliad tells the story of the rage of Achilles. It begins in the ninth year of the Trojan War, with a conflict between Achilles and Agamemnon, two Greek generals, because Agamemnon disrespects Achilles. This leads to Achilles abandoning the Greek cause, even wishing for them to call out his name in anguish. The loss of Achilles is significant, since he is the Greek’s strongest soldier, and so the Greeks begin losing. Patroclus, Achilles’ closest companion, decides to help the Greeks, leading to his death at the hands of the prince of Troy, Hector. Although Achilles achieved the object of his rage, namely the Greeks calling out his name in anguish, it cost him the life of his closest companion. He redirects his rage at Hector, rejoining the Greeks and killing Hector in battle. Still unsatisfied, he ties Hector to the back of his chariot and mutilates his body, to the anguish of the king of Troy and Hector’s father, Priam. Achilles’ rage is only relieved when Priam arrives alone to the Greek encampment to beg for his son’s body back. Priam is able to sneak into Achilles’ tent, and instead of striking him down while he is unprotected, he kneels down and kisses his hand, begging for his mercy. Only through this act of pure compassion from his most bitter enemy is Achilles able to relinquish his rage, and empathize with Priam. He sees in Priam his father, Peleus, and Priam sees in Achilles Hector. This story shows that love is the supreme force in the universe, able to melt the heart of even the greatest of warriors. The journey Achilles goes on is one of realization that dwelling in rage only festers it, and that the only way to relieve it is through empathy and forgiveness.

### Thoughts on style of writing

The themes of the Iliad are further enhanced through the the style of writing. Homer makes little digressions for each character that dies in the story. Despite their role being restricted exclusively to dying, Homer is sure to inform the reader of where he comes from and who his family is. I think this is intentional, to illustrate that every death matters. 100 people dying in a battle is a statistic, but we feel nothign watching hundres of soldiers killing each other in movies. On the other hand, Homer gives us the tineist glimpse into the family history of each soldier, to show us that every death is a tragedy.

### Thoughts on the relationship between Troy and "Greece"

The city of Troy is located on the west coast of Asia Minor, or Turkey today. Although it is referred to as a foreign country relative to the Greeks in The Iliad, it is important to note in the original Greek, they were referred to as the Achaeans, which is merely one of the many Greek tribes. There was no general Greek identity back then, so Spartans and Athenians and Achaeans all viewed each other as foreign countries, although today we would all view them as Greeks. Another important thing to note is that there were many Greek cities and settlements in Asia Minor, namely the Ionian cities. Therefore it is not far-fetched to theorize that the conflict between the Achaeans and the Trojans was more similar to the later conflict between the Spartans and Athenians as opposed to the conflict between the Greeks and the Persians. Or perhaps the concept of a nation-state is a modern invention, and using these lens to analyze a 2500 year old myth doesn't make much sense.

It is also worth noting that Thucydides later theorizes the origins of the various Greek tribes to be sea-faring pirates that settled on the mainland. Troy happens to be located in the midpoint of the Bronze Age world, making it the natural hub for most trade routes and therefore very rich. At many points in the story Helen seems to be viewed as merely a secondary motivation, which suggests to me that the main reason for the war was for Troy's gold and not for justice.

### Thoughts on the role of the gods and the psychology of Helen

At first, I was unsure how necessary of a role the gods play in the story of The Iliad. Althogh they take up a large part of the narrative, they can technically be removed and the story still works. Paris kidnaps Helen -> Greeks invade Troy -> Achilles and Agamemnon fight -> The Trojans start winning the war -> Patroclus is killed in battle -> Achilles returns to the war -> Achilles kills Hector -> Priam and Achilles empathize with each other. I also have a personal bias against stories that utilize godlike forces. Due to my christian upbringing, I think of gods as all-powerful but also intentional. Thus, whenever a story introduces godlike characters, the conflict is immediately ended. However, per my current understanding of how the Greeks saw their gods, they were more like cosmic forces that represented concepts. Thus, it is impossible for them to not only not flatten the conflict, but add to our understanding of it. For example, did Helen run off with Paris? or was she kidnapped? My belief is that she may have loved Paris, but was still kidnapped against her will. The three goddesses most invovled in this conflict are Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite. A literal interpretation of their motivations were that Paris declared Aphrodite the most beautiful of all the gods, so Aphrodite gave him Helen as a reward, and the other two goddesses swore to revenge. A metaphorical interpretation is that the conflict between Hera, the goddess of marriage, Athena the goddess of wisdom, and Aphrodite, the goddess of love exists in the mind of Helen. Although she loves Paris, she is also wise and respects her marriage, so she refuses to go willingly. Paris, being an asshole, takes her anyway.

### Thoughts on the psychology of Paris Alexander

Paris Alexander is the closest thing to the villain of The Iliad. But even he is by no means unsympathetic. My interpretation is that he is fully driven by insecurity. We are constantly told of the greatness of Hector, his elder brother. Living his entire life under Hector's shadow likely caused him to feel like he had to massively overcompensate, which lead to his impuslive actions that ultimately lead to the downfall of his entire city.
