### Summary

The Odyssey tells the story of the royal family of Ithaca, Telemachus, Penelope, and Odysseus. It begins ten years after the end of the Trojan War, with Odysseus still stranded at sea and separated from his family. Telamachus and Penelope are tormented by suitors all over the country of Ithaca, seeking to marry Penelope and gain the Ithacan throne. Meanwhile, Odysseus is tormented by the gods, stranding him at sea for ten years, after the ten-year long Trojan War. The story sees this family reunite, and slay the suitors who sought to tear them apart, showing that their fortitude brought about by their love for each other remained strong despite twenty years of estrangement. Even when gods and men try to tear loved ones apart, it is through their hope born of love that allows them to perservere.

### General Thoughts

Unlike The Iliad, which I instantly fell deep into the story, themes, and characters, I struggled a lot more with understanding the meaning of The Odyssey. I watched and read many interpretations of the story, but none of them really matched what I was reading. Thus, my interpretation of this text is more unique, as unlike The Iliad, it does not state its thesis from its very first word. I believe this story is about hope, and maintaining in despite all of life's struggles. Despite twenty years estranged, Odysseus, Penelope, and Telemachus each display unwavering hope that their family will one day be reunited, fueled by the love they have for each other. This is a conclusion I reached by deeply immersing myself in the mind of each character, and considering what I would feel if I were in their situation, rather than any explicit evidence from the text.

### Thoughts on comparison with Job

My first reaction to this text was it similarity to the biblical story of Job. Both Odysseus and Job are described as very good people, who are just suffering for what seems to be the whims of gods. Where I think this text diverges from Job is in the meaning. Whereas when Job laments to God and asks him why he should suffer, God simply rebukes him, telling him how miniscule he is compared to God, and that he has no right to question the whims of a deity. The message here seems to be that suffering is a permanent fixture of life, and not to question it. The Odyssey, on the other hand, shows that Odysseus, Penelope, and Telemachus' persistence through their individual suffering ultimately paid off, when they were reunited. This tells a different message, that in response to suffering, people must hope, and that hope is a derivation of love.

### Thoughts on the role of the gods

Upon reading The Odyssey, I realized that most of the supernatural elements are constrained to chapters 7-12, when Odysseus describes his journey home. The only other prominent gods in the story are Odysseus' benefactor, Athena, the goddess of Wisdom, and Odysseus' greatest obstacle, Poseidon, the god of the sea. In other words, Odysseus is opposed by the sea and supported by wisdom. There is likely an explanation somewhere out there for a metaphorical interpreation of each supernatural element in his journey. On a personal level, these were my favorite parts of the book, as I read this right after The Iliad, so it was nice to see those characters again. The chapter that Odysseus spends in Hades is my favorite chapter in the whole book.
