### General Thoughts

As Aristotle’s Ethics pondered the question of “How do you live a good life?”, Politics answers the question: “How do you construct a good society?”. These two queries are intimately connected, as Aristotle believes a good society is the society that best allows for its citizens to live this good life. In his Politics, Aristotle discusses the means in which to construct this good society, in which people would be able to live good lives.

### Thoughts on “natural slaves”:

Aristotle begins the book with a discussion on slavery. Aristotle is biased in favor of Greek societies, and the glaring prescence of slavery is something he was forced to reckon with. His argument boils down to the following. In the Ethics, Aristotle asserted that a “good” person was someone who was inclined towards the positive virtues, and acted upon them. This inclination is partially nature, partially nurture. Yet Aristotle also believes that not everyone will be “good”, which is a harm to themselves and others. Thus, these people who cannot act in their best interests and also pose a threat to others should be enslaved, for their best interest and the general interest of society. His logic is a weak defense of Greek slavery, as slavery had little to do with the above reasoning and more to do with conquest. It is also a difficult concept to implement, as even if we are to take his ideas as correct, how one should determine whether a man has the mentality of a freeman or a slave is difficult to ascertain.

### Thoughts on money lending or “rent-seeking” behavior:

In order to discuss what is the best society, Aristotle explores the origins of society. He argues that in the beginning, people would gain sustenance from hunting, gathering, farming etc., the most natural way of life. As the population grew, people began to exchange things with each other (bartering), in order to maintain equilibrium in resources. Aristotle argues this too is natural, as exchanges are made through necessity. Where society deviated to the unnatural was when people began to trade, no longer for necessity but for a common currency, in order to produce more of it. Aristotle believes this to be unnatural, yet he understands how it naturally evolved from exchange. What Aristotle believes to be completely unnatural and evil is money lending or “rent-seeking” behavior. This is when people are not even exchanging goods for money, but using money to make more money. Aristotle believes this to be the most unnatural, as it no longer resembles in any way the most natural form of life.

### Thoughts on similarities between Spartan and American government:

Aristotle analyzes existing constitutions in order to discuss what works and what doesn’t. One of which he examines is the Spartan government, which I noticed to be eerily similar to the American government. The Spartans had three branches of government, the Kings, the Ephors, and the Elders, bearing resemblance to monarchy, democracy, and oligarchy. The kings were two rulers that were still below the law, except on military expeditions. The Ephors were a publicly elected board of legilators, who served temporary terms. The Elders were selected from noble families, who served for life. This reminded me of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of American government, with each of them serving as checks and balances for each other.

### Thoughts on the purpose of government:

After Aristotle’s examination of existing constitutions, he provides a brief definition of the purpose of governemnt, which I quite liked. Aristotle examines six different forms of governemnt, kingship, oligarchy, polity, democracy, aristocracy, and tyranny. These six are first divided three ways, in terms of who rules, then in two ways, for which purpose. So a kingship and tyranny are both rule by ONE, but a kingship is FOR the good of the people, wheras tyranny is FOR the good of the ruler. Aristocracy and oligarchy are both rule by the FEW, but an aristocarcy is FOR the good of the people, whereas the oligarchy is FOR the good of the rulers. Polity and democracy are both rule by the MANY, but a polity is FOR the good of the people, wheras the democracy is FOR the good of the rulers. So what makes a good government is one that does not rule for the good of the ruler, but for the good of the people. (A small note: democracy seems awfully good in this definition, as it is what is best for the many, but consider that 51% is a majority, and if this 51% consider only what is best for them and not for the whole community, it is unfair to the other 49%. The best government is still not the one who simply does what is best for the majority, but ideally what is best for all).

### Thoughts on how military influences government:

Aristotle believes that a state’s geography influences its military, which influences its government. A geography which favors cavalry and hoplites will create an oligarchy, because heavy armor and horse-breeding are expensive activities, and will favor the wealthy. A geography which favors lightly armored soldiers and navy will create a democracy, because they require high numbers, and will favor the many. The military is what determines the safety of the state, and thus have a natural determination in affairs of the state.

### Thoughts on Aristotle’s misinterpretation of Plato:

Throughout Politics, Aristotle relentlessly attacks Plato, in many ways that don’t make a lot of sense. Aristotle supposedly studied under Plato for twenty years, yet his understanding of his work seems to be elementary. On even a first reading of Plato’s republic, it is clear that his metaphor of the just city is just that, a metaphor for human character and justice. Yet Aristotle either does not understand this or ignores this and criticizes many minute points in the governmental construction in Plato’s Republic. Aristotle, having many brilliant ideas of his own, cannot be an idiot, so one has to assume that his attack on Plato was intentional. It is also clear that anyone who read or learned under Plato would see how incorrect his attacks were, so Aristotle’s audience was likely people who never read or learned from Plato.

### Thoughts on Aristotle’s advocacy for pan-Hellenism:

Aristotle was an advocate for pan-Hellenism, the idea that if all the Greek city-states were able to stop fighting amongst themselves and unite, they could form a superpower in the region.

### Thoughts on Aristotle’s idea of a supremely virtuous god-king:

For all of Aristotle’s talk about the best form of government, he says it can all go out the window on one condition. If a man with supreme virtue arrives, it is best for the state to hand authority to him, and let him be the sole monarch. He should not even be beholden to the laws, as he would be closer to a god than a man, and gods are not beholden to laws. This is a strange philosophy.

### Thoughts on if Aristotle was spreading pro-Macedonian sentiments in Athens

I believe that Aristotle was a Macedonian agent in Athens, spreading pro-Philip propaganda to make them less resistant to his rule. Firstly, Aristotle was born in Macedon, the son of the Macedonian royal family physician, where he likely developed a friendship with Philip II, prince of Macedon. Aristotle arrived in Athens at 18, in order to study under Plato. Yet, his criticism of Plato’s Republic shows either a misunderstanding or misrepresentation of Plato’s ideas. This is likely in order to place his philosophy above Plato’s and assert control over the Athenian intellectual environment. In his teachings, he advocated for pan-Hellenism, and that if a man of supreme virtue arrived, people should accept him as their ruler. As stated earlier, this is a strange philosophy, since rarely are people kings because they are virtuous. Rather, kings assert their right to rule over others because of their virtue. This seems to be exaclty what Aristotle is doing, to plant the idea in Athenian minds that Philip is god-king of supreme virtue, and that he will lead them into a pan-Hellenic state. The two main philosophical obstacles Aristotle needed to overcome were this: the attachment each city-state had to their own identity, and the Platonic desire to endlessly seek truth. Aristotle's philosophy counteracts both of these, which sets the stage for Philip's conquest.

### Thoughts on how Aristotle's philosophy is advantageous to empire

With this revelation in mind, it is important to expand on the differences in writing style between Plato and Aristotle. Plato writes using dialogues, with his characters disagreeing and presenting different ideas, this is to allow the reader to think for themselves, and actively engage in philosophy. Aristotle's work leaves us with lecture notes, so we assume he taught thorugh lectures, which is very authoritative, far less philosophically stimulating for the reader. This makes sense if Aristotle's goal was not to stimulate the philosophical minds of Athenians, as that would only provide potential threats to the Macedonian Empire, but rather to train them to just listen and obey.

Plato says what is most important is gaining knowledge of the truth, Aristotle says what is most important is doing good. Obviously students of Aristotle will be much more susceptible to empire. I personally find ways to reconcile these two philosophies, by seeking knowledge of what is good, and then doing it. But Aristotle's intention was not to synthesize his worldview with his teacher's as he continually points out the differences in their worldviews.

### Thoughts on the pattern of a prophet and a systemizer

This dynamic between Plato and Aristotle reminds me of Jesus and Paul. Plato and Jesus preached messages of spirituality and love, and Aristotle and Paul systemized it to be best utilized by empire.
