#### General Thoughts

This text was a wonderful introduction to philosophy. The text is divided into four dialogues: Euthyphro, Apology, Crito, and Phaedo. It begins with Euthyphro, which acts as a trailer or pitch for philosophy as a practice. It then goes to Apology and Crito, which describe what a philosopher is and why they do what they do, then concludes with Phaedo, which was a very challenging text with a lot of complex concepts. Together, they tell the story of the last few days of Socrates' life. This text was my most challenging text by far, although it was only 169 pages, I had to read some parts multiple times, especially Phaedo.

#### Thoughts on Euthyphro

In this dialogue, Socrates tackles the nature of piety, and examines what it truly means to be pious. Euthyphro is a young citizen who is prosecuting his father for the murder of a day-labourer, after the day-labourer killed one of the family slaves. There is a conflict here within Euthyphro, as he is torn between his duty to his father and his sense of piety, ultimately choosing piety. Socrates does not condemn Euthyphro's action against his father, not questioning the morality of the action itself, but poses the question to Euthyphro: what even is piety? For something that is worth a son prosecuting his own father, Socrates assumes that piety is something that Euthyphro understands very deeply. Upon being questioned, Euthyphro answers that piety is simply what is loved by the gods. Socrates response to this is what I find to be the most interesting point in this dialogue by far: is what is pious loved by the gods because it is pious, or is it pious because it is loved by the gods? Euthyphro answers by declaring it is because things are pious that they are loved by the gods, but when pressed as to what is the nature of these things that make them pious, he cannot say. The point of this dialogue is not to answer what things are pious or impious, but to rather challenge our understanding of what piety even is. It serves as a perfect introduction to the nature of philosophy, which is to question our very base beliefs about everything.

#### Thoughts on the Christian response to Euthyphro

In Euthyphro, Socrates presents a problem: if piety is not what is loved by the gods, but it is piety itself that the gods love, what is piety? Plato later attemps to solve this question with the "Theory of Forms", which argues that regardless of human interpretations of piety, there is a perfect form of piety called the "Form of the Good." Christians will later take this concept and make the Christian God the embodiment of the "Form of the Good." If Euthyphro were a Christian, he would simply respond that what is pious IS what God loves, because God is the perfect good/piety/justice. This does raise an interesting counterpoint, which is that the terms, "God is good" or "God is just," boil down to just "God is God". Furthermore, unlike the initial intention of Socrates or Plato, who intended for the "Form of the Good" to be something each individual sought out and discovered through philosophy and dialogue, Christians simply obey the authority of the Bible and God, which is the antithesis to the original intent.

#### Thoughts on Apology

In this dialogue, Socrates defends himself against the accusations levied against him, of corrupting the youth. Socrates claims he has done no such thing, all he does is understand his own lack of wisdom, and confront those who think themselves wise. True knowledge is understanding the limits of one's own knowledge, and having the humility to seek it out and learn. Socrates declares he has no doubt pissed off most of Athens with his actions, as people do not want the challenge of learning, or the humility of accepting what they do not know. People want what is easy, to not have their beliefs challenged. Socrates, however, claims that it is his divine duty to be the annoying gadfly in the ear of a horse, as that is what is best for the soul of the community. Socrates places a lot of emphasis on the soul, and how its cultivation lies in the pursuit of philosophy, the discipline of discovering what is right, and that the neglect of this discipline will lead to a decadence in the soul. Just like the body, if one does not "exercise" the soul, it will grow weak. Socrates further argues that the development of the soul is even more important than the development of the body, or the pursuit of money. Socrates declares that if his life is spared on the condition he can no longer practice his philosophy, he would rather die. This defense is obviously not very effective, and the people vote to kill him.

#### Thoughts on Crito

In this dialogue, Socrates is compelled to escape his imprisonment by his student, Crito. Socrates refuses to escape, claiming that it would be disrespctful to the city of Athens to disobey its laws. Here, Socrates displays a sense of extreme honor, that he truly is willing to die for his principles. He echoes a lot of the sentiments in Apology.

#### Thoughts on Socrates' view of death

Socrates' seemingly willingness to die is twofold. First is his extreme conviction in his mission, but the other is that he does not fear death the way his contemporaries, or even we do.Socrates argues that if the soul does not exist, and that death is just an endless sleep, it would very peaceful. However, if the soul does exist, and Socrates' soul would go to Hades (the common belief at the time), it is far more important for him to die while cultivating his soul, rather than live and letting it rot, only for it to be weaker when he eventually does die.

#### Thoughts on Phaedo

In this dialogue, Phaedo recalls the death of Socrates, in which Socrates debates two of his students, Simmias and Cebes, about the nature of death. Socrates seeks to prove why he, as a philosopher should not fear death, but in fact welcome it. His argument is this: a philosopher dedicates his entire life to separating his soul from his bodily desires. Death is simply the ultimate separation between body and soul. The soul is also the avenue in which we interact with concepts like goodness, justice, and truth, since we certainly cannot percieve these concepts with our bodily senses. Simmias and Cebes are not convinced that the soul exists after we die, so Socrates presents a few arguments.

First, Socrates claims that all opposites interchange positions via two processes. For example, something small becomes its opposite, big, by getting bigger. Likewise, something big becomes its opposite, small, by getting smaller. Whether or not we have words for these processes, these processes must exist. Socrates likens death and life as opposites, and thus going from life to death is dying, and there must be a process of going from death to life. If SOMETHING is going from death to life, that proves the existence of a soul pre-birth.

Second, Socrates claims that humans are born with an innate sense of concepts such as equality, justice, and beauty, because we can perceive when things fall short of these concepts. In order to understand the difference between someone's beauty and the perfect beauty, we must have had a concept of the perfect beauty. The perfect forms cannot be percieved by the body, and thus must predate the body, and thus humans must have had a soul before they had a body.

Third, Socrates argues that the soul does not dissapate when it dies. He does this by claiming everything can be divided into what can be sensed and what cannot. He argues that human beauty changes, and is not eternal, but the concept of beauty, the perfect beauty is unchangeable. Human beauty is sensed, the perfect beauty cannot be sensed. Thus since the soul belongs in the category of things that cannot be sensed, it will not dissapate when it dies.

#### Thoughts on the deception of the bodily senses

Socrates repeats multiple times in these dialogues that the bodily senses can be deceptive. As a philosopher, it is his duty to separate out these bodily desires in order to focus on the truth through channeling the soul. Socrates in this way is the progenitor to Immanuel Kant, and is also pretty much proven correct by modern neuroscience. His assertion that the mind is the cause of all things, and that the bodily senses may not be entirely truthful are reflected in how we now understand sight, hearing, etc as waves that trigger chemicals in the brain, and the brain constructs an image of the world through these chemicals. These senses can be deceptive as well and not reflect reality. It is amazing that Socrates was able to deduce this 2500 years ago.

#### Thoughts on Buddhist influence

In this dialogue, Socrates discusses the nature of the soul after death, and his view is that uncultivated souls are cursed to roam the earth, and reincarnate into animals, and the only way to be free from this cycle is through cultivation. This concept seems eerily similar to Buddhist and Hindu thought, and I believe there was an influence. The note on the book labeled this sort of thinking as Pythagorean, and I believe that Ancient Indian civilizations had the potential to interact with Ancient Greek civilizations, through the Persian Empire.

#### Thoughts on influence on Christianity

Platonic influence on Christianity is extremely obvious throughout this text. From Socrates' message of focusing not on the human body and materialism and instead towards cultivation of the soul, to his description of what basically sounds like heaven and hell, it is clear that the New Testament Authors of the 1st Century were informed by Platonic ideas.

#### Thoughts on Socrates parallels with Jesus

Beyond just the theological influence, I find a shockingly amount of parallels between the characters of Socrates and Jesus Christ. Tell me what this story reminds you of. The son of a stonemason preaches a message of focusing less on materialism and bodily pleasures and instead salvation through cultivation of the soul. This prophet rebukes several pharisees/wise men and makes them look foolish in comparison. They are then arrested and charged by their government, and the government let the people decide their fate, the very people they were trying to save, choose for them to die.
