#### General Thoughts

This was a very short yet highly enjoyable read. The symposium sees six philosophers debate the age-old question: what is love? (baby don't hurt me) I found myself wildly captivated by this debate, despite none of these defintions of love really appealing to me. I found it rewarding enough to just experience and follow thoughtful ideas, even if I didn't agree with them per se. I think that is the intent of the text, as it does present six diverging opinions on love, and it prompts the reader to be the seventh (or eight if you count Alcibiades disruption), to consider and present their own definition of love. Love in this dialogue is actually referred to as "eros", which we in the modern day stupidly denote as just "sexual love". It is clear in this text that the meaning of "eros" far surpasses that definition. If The Last Days of Socrates was an introduction to philosophy, this book welcomes the reader to join in philosophy, as the structure prompts the reader to consider and conceptualize their own definition of love.

#### Thoughts on Phaedrus

Phaedrus presents the idea that love is the origin of virtue. Because we care about what our partners think of us, it prompts us to be good, to be brave. He proposes the idea of a battalion in which all the soldiers were lovers, and states those soldiers would be the bravest battalion ever seen. He was proven correct by the sacred band of Thebes. This is an interesting conception of love to me, but it feels incomplete. This concept of love would almost prompt lovers to be deceitful towards each other, in order to present the sense of virtue, which I don't think is truly love.

#### Thoughts on Pausanias

Pausanias presents the idea that two loves exist, heavenly and commonly. His evidence for this is that Aphrodite famously has two birth stories, one predating even the Greek pantheon, and one as the daughter of Zeus. He argues that just as there are two Aphrodites, a heavenly one and a more common one, there are also two loves. One in which emphasizes the growth and development of both individuals, and the other which can be equated to our modern definition of lust. Out of all the conceptions of love in this dialogue, I find this the most compellnig, but I don't necessarily agree that there is a distinct sepration of love and lust.

#### Thoughts on Eryximachus

Eryximachus is a doctor, and thus has a very boring conception of love. His opinion is that love is just the natural harmony of the universe, as well as within our bodies. I guess that's a cool belief but it isn't very thought-provoking.

#### Thoughts on Aristophanes

Aristophanes presents the myth that humans were once creatures with eight limbs, two humans fused together. Love is simply the desire to be whole again, to find our other half. I disagree with this conception, as I don't believe in the concept of soulmates. The idea that once you find your perfect person everything just works out until the end of time with no conflict or compromise is something I have not experienced and struggle to imagine. I also think philosophically that wholeness comes externally is quite foolish. Aristophanes' definiton of love would fit our modern term of codependency.

#### Thoughts on Ariston

Ariston's speech is intended to be very beautiful, but lacking in real substance. I found it very dull, but that may be because of the translation, which does not capture the artistry of the original greek. Regardless, he presents a whole lot of nothing about how love is youthful, beautiful, and virtuous with lackluster reasoning. He only exists in the narrative to setup Socrates to dunk on him.

#### Thoughts on Socrates

Socrates presents a weird argument, that love is the desire for immortality. It goes as following: love is the desire for something/someone. If love gets that thing, love will be happy, therefore love wants to be happy. But once love gets that thing, it still desires it, because it wants it in perpetuity. The example here can be a girl has a crush on a guy, so he desires her. She asks out guy girl and they start dating. She doesn't stop desiring him because she has him, but still desires him to be hers for the future. Thus, according to Socrates, love is the desire for happiness in perpetuity, thus love is the desire for immortality. The way human beings achieve immortality is by either raising children or by creating great works of art to be remembered. This conception of love does not appeal to me, it defines love as simply desire.

#### Thoughts on Alcibiades

This dinner party is hit with the wildest plot twist, it is suddenly interrupted by Alcibiades, who stumbles in drunk and gives a eulogy for his love for Socrates. Alcibiades comes off as a crazy ex-girlfriend, complaining that Socrates doesn't make any advanced on him, and only wants to talk about philosophy. It was wild to witness Alcibiades like this, as my view of Alcibiades was shaped by Thucydides and Xenophon, who presented him as the villain most responsible for the downfall of the Athenian Empire. He was perhaps the most "Athenian" of Athens' generals, pushing Athens into taking more and more risks, ending with the Sicillian expedition. He then fled Athens to Sparta, then to Persia, then back to Athens again, showing no loyalty or morality. The events of the Symposium supposedly predated all of these events, and was an amazing insight into the psychology of Alcibiades.

#### Thoughts on love

Now, if you will forgive me for the arrogance of placing myself in this conversation and offerring my own definition of love, I will do so. I will do so by addressing the previous philosopher's definitions of love, and presenting where I assent or dissent. I will choose to ignore the arguments of Eryximachus and Ariston, since I believe them to be largely irrelevant or of little substance.

Phaedrus proclaims love is the reason for virtue, and that it is for love that people display virtue as a means to look good in front of their partners. I agree that love is the reason for virtue, but I disagree that it is because of love that we have virtue, I believe it is for love that we strive for virtue. Love does not cause us to desire to LOOK better in front of our partners, but to BE better. This sometimes creates a need for vulnerability and humility to admit our shortcomings to our partners, in order to lead to this growth. Thus I argue that love leads us to wanting to seem more virtuous, but rather love inspires us to grow and be better people.

Pausanius proclaims love is of two natures, heavenly and commonly. One love representing the desire for both individuals to grow and improve together in the relationship, and the other love representing lustful passion. Pausanius draws a clear distinction between the two, believing them to be mutually exclusive, or that lust must only follow the first type of heavenly love. I agree with Pausanius' separation of love, I believe that as we humans are of two natures, soul and body, we also experience two kinds of loves, the heavenly for the soul and the commonly for the body. However, I believe that we as humans must accept both of our natures, and therefore accept both types of love simultaneously.

Aristophanes proclaims love is the seeking of wholeness. I disagree that humans need a partner to be whole, and I think that thinking in this way is foolish. It essentially offloads the responsibility of self-improvement and happiness to another person, expecting them to be the cure to all of one's problems. I agree that finding the right partner can lead to a lifelong relationship in which both parties prosper, but I believe that requires endless work on both sides through conflict and compromise in order to grow and improve together.

Socrates proclaims love is the desire for immortality, whether that is through offspring or works of art. I disagree, consider this example: a man gets cancer at a young age and passes away, leaving his partner. If he truly loves his partner, does he want the partner to go through her entire life with no partner, or does he want her to move on and be happy? If he truly loves his partner, he would want her to be happy, and how could she be happy if she was forever burdened with the memory of his loss? Thus, he would want her to move on. This contradicts Socrates' concept of love, as his love would cause him to lose his immortality in the memory of his lover, for the sake of her happiness.

If my refutations of the other philosophers has not given you a clear picture of my concept of love, I will define it now. To me, love is acceptance. Acceptance of the imperfect nature of ourselves and our partners. Love is the ability to reflect upon the imperfect nature of ourselves, and strive to be better, for the sake of our partner. Love is the ability to accept the imperfections in our partner, and be patient enough to see them grow. Love is the ability for two individuals to join together and be more than the sum of their parts, to be more than whole, to be able to make each other better everyday. Love is acceptance of our mortality, that our time on this earth is limited, and having the knowledge of that and choosing to spend it with those that we love.
