#### General thoughts

Although this text appears to just be a historical account of the Peloponnesian war between Athens and Sparta, I believe it is truly meant as a case study of the Athenian psyche. An exploration for how its risk-taking nature and endless ambition shape not only its own destiny but the world around it. Early in the book, Thucydides constructs a psychological portrait of the Athenian mind: fearless and never satiated. The rest of the book details the unfolding of the war, which sees these very qualities, which fuel Athenian greatness and threaten its neighbors, also ensure its self-destruction. The lesson here is that all Athenians, and those who bear similar mindsets cannot be allowed to exist, else endlessly threaten its neighbors and inevitably destroy itself.

#### Thoughts on Thucydides’ writing style

Our historical account of Thucydides is self-referential. He makes a cameo in the very book he is writing, as an Athenian general that is defeated by Brasidas. Although he was present for most of the war, his writing style consists of long speeches, many of which he cannot have been present for. His position as a former Athenian general now in exile wandering the Peloponnese does give him the ability to gather different accounts of the broad strokes of what had been said, but the exact wording and underlying messages can only be his own creation.

#### Thoughts on the Athenian pyschology

In pages 75-76 of Rex Warner's translation, Thucydides compares the Athenian and Spartan psychologies. I fear I cannot do the original text justice, so I reccomend going to read it yourself. The closest contemporary analogy I can draw is our modern concept of Type A vs Type B Personalities. Type A, in this case the Athenians, are risk-seeking and ambitious. Type B, the Spartans, are risk-averse and complacent. What Thucydides argues is that these two personalities cannot coexist in peace. The Athenian will always expand aggressively, never satisfied with what it already has. In any game with limited resources, they pose a perpetual threat to their neighbors. yet this drive that brings about its success is also what brings about its ultiamtely downfall. The Athenian will eventually take upon a risk too great, and overextend itself, leading to its collapse. This is posed as the reason for the conflict: The Athenian mindset is a perpetual threat to itself and its neighbors, and therefore must be destroyed for the wellbeing of all.

#### Thoughts on misinterpretation of Thucydides trap

"The Thucydides Trap" is an idea generated from Graham Allison, someone who clearly either has not read or completely misunderstood Thucydides' writing. It is the idea that war becomes increasingly likely when a rising power threatens to overtake the existing hegemon. I believe this explanation of the reasons behind the Peloponnesian war is an incomplete analysis, as can be seen from my arguments above. The reason for this misinterpretation, I believe, lies in the fact that we currently live in "an Athenian victory". Although Athens lost the Peloponnesian war, their final victory lies in the survival of their psychology, which lives on in all of us.

#### Thoughts on living in an Athenian victory

Today, we live in a world dominated by the Athenian mindset. Contrary to the time of Thucydides, where the Athenian mindset was so alien it united most of the Hellenic world against Athens and its empire, being an ambitious risk-taker today is praised. When most people read Thucydides' psychological portait of an Athenian, they see nothing wrong with it, as this is how we are taught we must be to succeed in today's society. Life has become a rat race of who takes on the greatest risk to achieve the greatest ambition. People have forgotten Thucydides lesson, that the Athenian ambition does not only destroy its surroundings, it will inevitably destroy itself. America has normalized expansionism and imperialism in order to justify its own empire.

#### Thoughts on Athenian imperialism

After the first year of the Peloponnesian War, the leader of Athens, Pericles, gives a speech during the funeral for all the soldiers that died thus far in the war. He describes the greatness of Athenian democracy, its system of government and judicial system, all which is quite undeniable. I, myself, was entranced by the greatness of Athenian society, until the ending, when he declared that their city must be an education upon all of Greece. I believe I experienced a microcosm of the cognitive dissonance of Athenian life. Their society is undeniably great, and for these reasons, they feel the right to “educate” and spread their ideology across all of Greece. Such is the fallacy of hubris.

#### Thoughts on Athenian hypocrisy

Incredibly ironically, the very next chapter describes Athens’ hypocrisy. Despite all of Pericles grand claims about justice and how their system was vastly superior to the rest of Greece, when hit by plague, all of Athens resorted to lawlessness. This placement really highlights the hypocrisy of Athens, in one chapter boasting about its superiority and greatness, and the next chapter showing the reality.

#### Thoughts on the Melian Dialogue

I believe the Melian Dialogue offers deeper insight into the Athenian psychology. In order to be imperialistic, one has to have a certain view of themselves. The Athenians inherently see themselves as superior, which gives them the right to conquer others. “The standard of justice depends on the equality of power to compel and that in fact the strong do what they have the power to do and the week accept what they have to accept”. This is a necessary component of the Athenian mentality, which is why it cannot be allowed to exist. The Melians are an example of why neutrality is not an option when Athenians exist, as Athenians do not see opposition, only opportunity. The Melians were unable to remain neutral, and were destroyed by the Athenians. This is where criticism of Sparta is appropriate, as this Melian conflict was only possible due to their peace treaty with Athens. This shows that Athenians cannot be left alone, as their constant expansion will lead to the suffering of others. The Spartans are too focused on self-preservation, but they eventually learn that giving the Athenians space was a mistake, and rejoin the war.

#### Thoughts on the debate over the Sicillian invasion

I believe the Sicillian expedition shows the inevitability and unchanging nature of the Athenian psychology. Nicias, an Athenian general, pleads for Athens to call off the Sicillian expedition, as it is too great a risk. Unfortunately, Nicias forgot he was arguing to Athenians, who love taking risks. I believe another aspect is that their psychology is so ingrained in their psychology that it is impossible to change it. The Athenians mindset is like capitalism, it requires a system of infinite growth. Soon, that growth will reach a limit and collapse in on itself, but the Athenians can’t stop it even if they wanted to.

#### Thoughts on the ending

Thucydides' text is infamously known for its incompleteness, even ending in the middle of the sentence. He only narrates 20 out of the 27 years of the Peloponnesian War. So as a historical account of the war, it is fair to label it as incomplete. I would argue that the text is complete, however, as I believe the true meaning of the text is to create a profile of the Athenian psychology, and document how it leads societies to great fame, and then great collapse. In this sense, we follow the origin of the conflict, caused by Athenian daring and expansionism, and conclude with the Sicillian expedition, when Athens finally overextends itself and collapses completely. This text sufficiently describes, and forewarns the dangers of the Athenian mind.
