#### General Thoughts

Xenophon’s Hellenika or A History of My Times is the first semi-obscure work in my reading list. Xenophon himself is less famous compared to Homer, Herodotus, or Thucydides, and Hellenika is not even his most famous work (Anabasis). I was initially drawn to Hellenika due to the common belief that Thucydides’ work was unfinished, and that it was a near direct continuation of Thucydides. Since finishing Thucydides, I strongly disagree with this sentiment, as I wrote about in my notes on his work. That left me a little lost, with an already purchased copy of Hellenika sitting on my shelf. Upon reading Hellenika, I can say with certainty it was worthwhile. It slots in beautifully as the third installment in a “Greek History” trilogy alongside Herodotus and Thucydides. It can be framed like this: Herodotus shows the birth of the Greek world, Thucydides shows the conflict, and Xenophon shows the aftermath. Xenophon was also a student of Socrates, and Socrates influence is felt throughout this work. Xenophon chooses to focus more on virtue, of both the individual and the state as a whole, compared to Herodotus and Thucydides, which was a perfect appetizer for Socrates’ heavy emphasis on virtue.

#### Thoughts on where Xenophon fits alongside Herodotus, Thucydides

I see Xenophon as the third installment in the trilogy of Greek historians, starting with Herodotus, leading into Thucydides, and concluding with Xenophon. This can be understood in multiple ways. First, it can be interpreted as the rise and fall of Ancient Greece or Hellas. The concept of pan-Hellenic identity was born in Herodotus' Histories, as a response to the Persian threat. Hellas tore itself apart in Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War, as the Greek world was torn between Athens and Sparta. Xenophon captures the aftermath of this conflict, as the city states grow weak and decadent following the thirty year conflict, setting the stage for the Macedonian invasion. Another way of looking at it is the story of Athens, Herodotus sees the rise of Athens, Thucydides sees the fall of Athens, and Xenophon shows the aftermath. Whatever way you look at it, this text is heavily underrated and under-appreciated, and is a worthy final installment in the Ancient Greek Historical trilogy.

#### Thoughts on the "Xenophon trap"

I have discussed at length how much I despise the term "Thucydides trap", and how much I think it misinterprets Thucydides' narrative. I would like to propose an alternative concept, the "Xenophon trap". In Xenophon's narrative, there is a pattern in which lesser powers will unite in order to topple the regional hegemon. Xenophon picks up with Sparta victorious over Athens. Athens was previously the regional hegemon, and thus Sparta, Thebes, and even the Persian Empire united in order to topple it. However, after Sparta's victory, it now becomes the regional hegemon, leading Athens to ally with Thebes and the Persians to topple it. The Theban's victory over Sparta at the Battle of Leuctra now left it as the regional hegemon, and as you can likely imagine, Sparta and Athens united to topple Thebes. As I continue to study history, this "Xenophon trap" will be a pattern I keep a close eye on.

#### Thoughts on Xenophon's perspective on conflict.

Xenophon chose to title his history, Hellenika, which is how the Classical Greeks referred to themselves. Unlike Thucydides, who attempted to moralize and justify the reasons behind the Peloponnesian War, Xenophon focused on the aftermath of this conflict. Xenophon ends his narrative in a climactic final battle between the combined forces of Athens and Sparta against Thebes. Although Athens and Sparta are victorious over Thebes, Xenophon states that due to the heavy losses on all sides, neither party walked away much the better for it, and draws this concept for the entirety of the conflict. His title, Hellenika, is a political statement for pan-Hellenism, the unification or alliance of all of Greece. Xenophon's point is regardless of the reasons behind the conflict, the end result of the wars between Athens, Sparta, and Thebes is a weaker Greece overall. Although he did not live to see it, he would be proven correct by Philip II of Macedon's conquest of Greece.

#### Thoughts on the decline of Athenian democracy and piety

Xenophon's narrative continues Thucydides depiction of the decline of Athenian morality. As the war drags on and their losses mount up, their morality escapes them. During the first year of the Peloponnesian War, Pericles gives a funeral oration, proudly declaring the moral superiority of the Athenian people and its government. The plague that hit Athens immediately following this saw much of this sentiment evaporate, as Athenians came face-to-face with desperation. Now, they devolve into immorality and lawlessness, with nobody fearing the consequences due to the societal chaos. Earlier in the war, the Athenians defeat and capture a city, Mytilene, and debate whether or not they should spare the city or raze it and kill all of its citizens. The Athenians chose to show grace and mercy, as a show of their superior piety. However, later in the war, the Athenians invade a city that they were not even at war with, Melos, and kill the entire population for not forcibly joining the Athenian alliance and paying tribute. Finally, as we near the end of this conflict and Athen's final defeat, Athens overthrows its own democratic government, then overthrows it again (a total of six times), and also begins to start killing off its own generals for seemingly no good reason. This history is comparable to The Joker in The Dark Knight, who believes society is filled with men who act moral only when times are good, but "when the chips are down, they'll eat each other". 4th century BC Athens is displaying this exact sentiment.
